hey guys welcome to my channel today I
wanted to share my story with you the
story about how I passed I fell I BTW I
actually scored 117 out of 120 and this
was a great experience for me because I
wanted to enter United States
universities and many of them required
around 100 or um 90 so it was well above
the grade I needed and I wanted to share
the methods that I used while preparing
for TOEFL I wanted to give you some
advice so if you're interested if you're
preparing for TOI for right now please
continue watching the first thing I
wanted to tell you about TOEFL is that
it actually tests your abilities to take
the TOEFL gene the preparation process
you don't have to learn the English
language you just have to learn how to
do tasks that are typical for TOEFL and
the best thing is to start preparing for
TOEFL when your upper intermediate level
or advanced level the first thing you
have to do is find out which score is
required by your university or
institution that you want to enter using
the TOEFL score and this will give you
the benchmark that you aim for for
example my university is required ninety
to a hundred seven I think so
I aim to do my best at the test and the
first thing I did is I downloaded
cracking the toy fill IBT book and took
the practice test which showed that I
scored eighty five percent which was
below the score that I needed for my
university so the first thing I did I
determined the parts that are the most
difficult for me and surprisingly that
was speaking because speaking in total
it's just I don't know people don't
speak like TOEFL in real life you're
supposed to give sixty Seconds speech
and you have just 15 seconds to prepare
and to gather all your thoughts on
topics you never ever discuss in real
life so this is a bit tricky so I
started with speaking and also reading
got some problems because I'm not really
attentive sometimes I get distracted by
things so and reading requires maximum
concentration another advice I wanted to
give you is you have to note the topics
that are common for TOEFL for example a
caves in France life in the ocean
mammals whatever like all of those
topics that you would have during your
biology classes at school or geography
classes at school and those topics you
would never discuss with your friends
like you wouldn't talk to them talk to
your friends on a daily basis about this
topics and this means you don't have
heavy Lurie for those topics maybe you
know the words but you don't use them
every day so you forget them eventually
and you have just to note all those
topics and watch a lot of videos on them
so I just watch them on YouTube like I
googled ancient caves in France and I
watch all of those texts just to you
know to adapt my brain to those words to
adapt my brain to those topics because
you would have a very limited time
during your toy 'fl now let's get to the
advice concerning the reading part as I
said this was the part that caused a lot
of difficulties for me I think there
were a couple of reasons for that the
first reason and the most important one
is that I wasn't concentrated enough but
when I came to the exam I tried to put
all of my attention into the reading
part and so I scored 30 out of 30 and
this is my advice for you so the first
thing that you need to do is concentrate
maximally on your reading point but the
most difficult thing to do that during
the exam is that when you start reading
but there are still people who are
registering for the test and entering
the room so it can be really frustrating
but you have to do your best use the
headphones that they give you back to
the method the first thing that you need
to do when passing reading part is just
to scroll the text because you just have
to get the general idea of the text you
don't have to get into every single
detail because your task in reading part
is not to memorize the text not to
understand every single detail but to
answer the questions that they give you
so what I did is I just read the first
sentence of every paragraph which gave
me the idea of the text and I got
straight to the questions the second
thing which is really important is that
questions actually follow the order of
the text so the first question you would
get you will find the answer in the
first paragraph the second question will
be the first a second program but you
will never get the first question with
the
so in the last paragraph that that would
never happen to you and that makes life
so much easier
very important thing is that you need
only one sentence to answer each
question for example there will be a
question like I don't know which color
was the most popular among
Impressionists in the 19th century and
there would be just one sentence that
gives the answer
say for example you found that sentence
stop there just answer the question and
get to the next one because if you would
continue reading that sentence there
would be something really tricky that
would surprise you that would make you
anxious and you would think that you
actually chose their own answer for
example you would have but in the 20th
century they started using color bla bla
bla but they would use complex words
complex sentence structures and then
would actually add difficulty to
answering the questions so my advice
that once you find the right answer just
stop there and get to the next question
if you don't know what's the right
answer straightaway I advise you to
cross out the wrong answers what I did
is I took a piece of paper that they
gave us during toy 'fl and I made like a
template for myself I wrote ABCD ABCD a
lot of them and I used every single for
answering questions for example you have
ABCD but you're sure that B and C are
wrong answers just cross them out on
your paper you would just have to decide
between a and D which makes life easier
right
another great thing here is that you can
go back to the answers what happened to
me is when I started the test there were
a lot of people coming into the room it
was really loud I couldn't concentrate
so I just picked some answers in the
first two questions and moved on to the
next text after you finish with your
reading part you go straight into the
listening part and I think this was one
of the easiest parts for me because the
questions there they do not require you
to think there wouldn't be any double
meanings or some context that you need
to remember in order to answer the
question correctly they're pretty
straightforward for example you would
listen to a text where the teacher
explains what
children are going to do during the
lecture and he says we're going to start
with the test and then we'll continue to
the new topic about mammals in Africa
and the question would be what the
children do at the beginning of the
lesson and you would answer the test so
they're pretty straightforward so the
only thing you need to do during the
listening part is listen to every detail
I made some notes I try to write down
everything I hear but the most important
task is to not miss anything because if
we miss a couple of details you won't be
able to answer some questions so this is
really important and what I also wanted
to tell you is that I barely use my
notes well I use them for to answer
every fourth question I'd say something
like that statistically but the the
other questions were pretty easy to
answer just by what I remembered from
listening so that was pretty easy and I
scored 30 out of 30 for listening and
maybe another piece of advice joyful is
an American test so they're using
American people to talk to your
listening part if you could watch some
movies in American English before your
test that would be great just to prepare
your ear just to be ready to hear that
American accent because when I learn my
English hello in British accent and then
I had to kind of convert because I
wanted to sound American okay guys this
is the end of part 1 second part would
be about joyful speaking and joyful
writing I really enjoyed talking to you
in my video and I wanted to let you know
that I reached my goal I was admitted to
top five American universities two of
them offered me full financial aid so if
you're interested in my story please
subscribe to my channel like comment and
I hope to see you in the next videos
ciao